addons/README.md, before:

# How to Write an Addon

Addons provide ways for file-browser to parse non-native directory structures. This document describes how one can create their own custom addon. For examples see [ftp-browser](ftp-browser.lua) and [http-browser](http-browser.lua).

## Terminology

For the purpose of this document addons refer to the scripts being loaded while parsers are the objects the scripts return. However, these terms are practically synonymous.
Additionally, `method` refer to functions called using the `object:funct()` syntax, and hence have access to the self object, whereas `function` is the standard `object.funct()` syntax.

## Overview

File-browser automatically loads any lua files from the `~~/script-modules/file-browser-addons` directory as modules. Each addon must return an object with the following three members:

| key       | type   | arguments | returns                    | description                                                                                                                 |
|-----------|--------|-----------|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| priority  | number | -         | -                          | a number to determine what order parsers are tested - 50 is a recommended neutral value                                     |
| can_parse | method | string    | boolean                    | returns whether or not the given path is compatible with the parser                                                         |
| parse     | method | string    | list_table, opts_table     | returns an array of item_tables, and a table of options to control how file_browser handles the list                        |

When a directory is loaded file-browser will iterate through the list of parsers from lowest to highest priority.
The first parser for which `can_parse` returns true will be selected as the parser for that directory.

The `parse` method will then be called on the selected parser, which is expected to return either a table of list items, or nil.
If nil is returned, then the browser will attempt to load the directory from the next parser for which `can_parse` return true, otherwise if an empty table is returned the browser will treat the directory as empty.
To be specific file-browser doesn't call parse directly, it calls the `parse_or_defer` method, as described in the [below](#utility-functions) table.

## The List Array

The list array must be made up of item_tables, which contain details about each item in the directory.
Each item has the following members:

| key   | type   | required | description                                                                               |
|-------|--------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| name  | string | yes      | name of the item, and the string to append after the directory when opening a file/folder |
| type  | string | yes      | determines whether the item is a file ("file") or directory ("dir")                       |
| label | string | no       | an alternative string to print to the screen instead of name                              |
| ass   | string | no       | a string to print to the screen without escaping ass styling - overrides label and name   |
| path  | string | no       | opening the item uses this full path instead of appending directory and name              |

File-browser expects that `type` and `name` will be set for each item, so leaving these out will probably crash the script.
File-browser also assumes that all directories end in a `/` when appending name, and that there will be no backslashes.
The API function `fix_path` (see next section) can be used to ensure that paths conform to file-browser rules.

## The Opts Table

The options table allows scripts to better control how they are handled by file-browser.
None of these values are required, and the opts table can even left as nil when returning.

| key             | type    | description                                                                                                         |
|-----------------|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| filtered        | boolean | if true file-browser will not run the standard filter() function on the list                                        |
| sorted          | boolean | if true file-browser will not sort the list                                                                         |
| directory       | string  | changes the browser directory to this - used for redirecting to other locations                                     |
| directory_label | string  | display this label in the header instead of the actual directory - useful to display encoded paths                  |
| empty_text      | string  | display this text when the list is empty - can be used for error messages                                           |
| index           | number  | index of the parser that successfully returns a list - set automatically, but can be set manually to take ownership |

## API Functions

All parsers are provided with a range of API functions to make addons more powerful.
These functions are added to the parser after being loaded via a metatable, so can be called through the self argument or the parser object.
These functions are only made available once file-browser has fully imported the parsers, so if a script wants to call them immediately on load they must do so in the `setup` method.

### Utility Functions

| key           | type     | arguments        | returns                 | description                                                                                                                                            |
|---------------|----------|------------------|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| setup         | method   | -                | -                       | a function that is automatically run once the parsers have been imported - this function is not set by default, and must instead be created by addons. |
| parse_or_defer| method   | string           | table, boolean, boolean | returns parse(string) or, if nil is returned, run defer() - this is what file-browser uses to scan directories                                         |
| defer         | method   | string           | table, boolean, boolean | returns parse_or_defer(string) on the next valid parser                                                                                                |
| fix_path      | function | string, boolean  | string                  | takes a path and an is_directory boolean and returns a corrected path                                                                                  |
| ass_escape    | function | string           | string                  | returns the string with escaped ass styling codes                                                                                                      |
| get_extension | function | string           | string                  | returns the file extension of the given file                                                                                                           |
| valid_file    | function | string           | boolean                 | tests if the given filename passes the user set filters (valid extensions and dot files)                                                               |
| valid_dir     | function | string           | boolean                 | tests if the given directory name passes the user set filters (dot directories)                                                                        |
| filter        | function | list_table       | list_table              | iterates through the given list and removes items that don't pass the filters - acts directly on the given list, it does not create a copy             |
| sort          | function | list_table       | list_table              | iterates through the given list and sorts the items using file-browsers sorting algorithm - acts directly on the given list, it does not create a copy |

### Getters

These functions allow addons to safely get information from file-browser.
All tables returned by these functions are copies to ensure addons can't break things.

| key                 | type     | arguments | returns | description                                                                                                           |
|---------------------|----------|-----------|---------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| get_index           | method   | -         | number  | the index of the parser in order of preference                                                                        |
| get_script_opts     | function | -         | table   | the table of script opts set by the user - this never gets changed during runtime                                     |
| get_extensions      | function | -         | table   | a set of valid extensions after applying the user's whitelist/blacklist - in the form {ext1 = true, ext2 = true, ...} |
| get_sub_extensions  | function | -         | table   | like above but with subtitle extensions - note that subtitles show up in the above list as well                       |
| get_parsers         | function | -         | table   | an array of the loaded parsers                                                                                        |
| get_dvd_device      | function | -         | string  | the current dvd-device - formatted to work with file-browser                                                          |
| get_directory       | function | -         | string  | the current directory open in the browser - formatted to work with file-browser                                       |
| get_current_file    | function | -         | table   | a table containing the path of the current open file - in the form {directory = "", name = ""}                        |
| get_current_parser  | function | -         | string  | the string name of the parser used for the currently open directory - as used by custom keybinds                      |
| get_selected_index  | function | -         | number  | the current index of the cursor                                                                                       |
| get_state           | function | -         | table   | the current state values of the browser - this is probably useless                                                    |

Commit message:

home-label added example of a simple addon

addons/README.md, after:

# How to Write an Addon

Addons provide ways for file-browser to parse non-native directory structures. This document describes how one can create their own custom addon.

## Terminology

For the purpose of this document addons refer to the scripts being loaded while parsers are the objects the scripts return. However, these terms are practically synonymous.
Additionally, `method` refer to functions called using the `object:funct()` syntax, and hence have access to the self object, whereas `function` is the standard `object.funct()` syntax.

## Overview

File-browser automatically loads any lua files from the `~~/script-modules/file-browser-addons` directory as modules. Each addon must return an object with the following three members:

| key       | type   | arguments | returns                    | description                                                                                                                 |
|-----------|--------|-----------|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| priority  | number | -         | -                          | a number to determine what order parsers are tested - 50 is a recommended neutral value                                     |
| can_parse | method | string    | boolean                    | returns whether or not the given path is compatible with the parser                                                         |
| parse     | method | string    | list_table, opts_table     | returns an array of item_tables, and a table of options to control how file_browser handles the list                        |

When a directory is loaded file-browser will iterate through the list of parsers from lowest to highest priority.
The first parser for which `can_parse` returns true will be selected as the parser for that directory.

The `parse` method will then be called on the selected parser, which is expected to return either a table of list items, or nil.
If nil is returned, then the browser will attempt to load the directory from the next parser for which `can_parse` return true, otherwise if an empty table is returned the browser will treat the directory as empty.
To be specific file-browser doesn't call parse directly, it calls the `parse_or_defer` method, as described in the [below](#utility-functions) table.

## The List Array

The list array must be made up of item_tables, which contain details about each item in the directory.
Each item has the following members:

| key   | type   | required | description                                                                               |
|-------|--------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| name  | string | yes      | name of the item, and the string to append after the directory when opening a file/folder |
| type  | string | yes      | determines whether the item is a file ("file") or directory ("dir")                       |
| label | string | no       | an alternative string to print to the screen instead of name                              |
| ass   | string | no       | a string to print to the screen without escaping ass styling - overrides label and name   |
| path  | string | no       | opening the item uses this full path instead of appending directory and name              |

File-browser expects that `type` and `name` will be set for each item, so leaving these out will probably crash the script.
File-browser also assumes that all directories end in a `/` when appending name, and that there will be no backslashes.
The API function `fix_path` (see next section) can be used to ensure that paths conform to file-browser rules.

## The Opts Table

The options table allows scripts to better control how they are handled by file-browser.
None of these values are required, and the opts table can even left as nil when returning.

| key             | type    | description                                                                                                         |
|-----------------|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| filtered        | boolean | if true file-browser will not run the standard filter() function on the list                                        |
| sorted          | boolean | if true file-browser will not sort the list                                                                         |
| directory       | string  | changes the browser directory to this - used for redirecting to other locations                                     |
| directory_label | string  | display this label in the header instead of the actual directory - useful to display encoded paths                  |
| empty_text      | string  | display this text when the list is empty - can be used for error messages                                           |
| index           | number  | index of the parser that successfully returns a list - set automatically, but can be set manually to take ownership |

## API Functions

All parsers are provided with a range of API functions to make addons more powerful.
These functions are added to the parser after being loaded via a metatable, so can be called through the self argument or the parser object.
These functions are only made available once file-browser has fully imported the parsers, so if a script wants to call them immediately on load they must do so in the `setup` method.

### Utility Functions

| key           | type     | arguments        | returns                 | description                                                                                                                                            |
|---------------|----------|------------------|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| setup         | method   | -                | -                       | a function that is automatically run once the parsers have been imported - this function is not set by default, and must instead be created by addons. |
| parse_or_defer| method   | string           | table, boolean, boolean | returns parse(string) or, if nil is returned, run defer() - this is what file-browser uses to scan directories                                         |
| defer         | method   | string           | table, boolean, boolean | returns parse_or_defer(string) on the next valid parser                                                                                                |
| fix_path      | function | string, boolean  | string                  | takes a path and an is_directory boolean and returns a corrected path                                                                                  |
| ass_escape    | function | string           | string                  | returns the string with escaped ass styling codes                                                                                                      |
| get_extension | function | string           | string                  | returns the file extension of the given file                                                                                                           |
| valid_file    | function | string           | boolean                 | tests if the given filename passes the user set filters (valid extensions and dot files)                                                               |
| valid_dir     | function | string           | boolean                 | tests if the given directory name passes the user set filters (dot directories)                                                                        |
| filter        | function | list_table       | list_table              | iterates through the given list and removes items that don't pass the filters - acts directly on the given list, it does not create a copy             |
| sort          | function | list_table       | list_table              | iterates through the given list and sorts the items using file-browsers sorting algorithm - acts directly on the given list, it does not create a copy |

### Getters

These functions allow addons to safely get information from file-browser.
All tables returned by these functions are copies to ensure addons can't break things.

| key                 | type     | arguments | returns | description                                                                                                           |
|---------------------|----------|-----------|---------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| get_index           | method   | -         | number  | the index of the parser in order of preference                                                                        |
| get_script_opts     | function | -         | table   | the table of script opts set by the user - this never gets changed during runtime                                     |
| get_extensions      | function | -         | table   | a set of valid extensions after applying the user's whitelist/blacklist - in the form {ext1 = true, ext2 = true, ...} |
| get_sub_extensions  | function | -         | table   | like above but with subtitle extensions - note that subtitles show up in the above list as well                       |
| get_parsers         | function | -         | table   | an array of the loaded parsers                                                                                        |
| get_dvd_device      | function | -         | string  | the current dvd-device - formatted to work with file-browser                                                          |
| get_directory       | function | -         | string  | the current directory open in the browser - formatted to work with file-browser                                       |
| get_current_file    | function | -         | table   | a table containing the path of the current open file - in the form {directory = "", name = ""}                        |
| get_current_parser  | function | -         | string  | the string name of the parser used for the currently open directory - as used by custom keybinds                      |
| get_selected_index  | function | -         | number  | the current index of the cursor                                                                                       |
| get_state           | function | -         | table   | the current state values of the browser - this is probably useless                                                    |

## Examples

For standard addons that add support for non-native filesystems, but otherwise don't do anything fancy, see [ftp-browser](ftp-browser.lua) and [http-browser](http-browser.lua).

For more simple addons that make a few small modifications to how other parsers are displayed, see [home-label](home-label.lua).

For more complex addons that maintain their own virtual directory structure, see
[favourites](favourites.lua).
